- [Instructor] In order to install and set up Tomcat,
you first have to consider a few prerequisites.
For Tomcat 9, which we'll be using,
you must have Java 8 or later installed.
You might other constraints to consider as well,
like what version of Java your organization supports
at present or particular API specs.
This table here gives a good amount of detail to consider.
Now, for this demo, we'll not be installing Tomcat
in a typical production scenario where you might have
a Windows service or Linux service set up.
We will simply copy the core files over and get it running.
With that in mind, you can go here to Tomcat 9.
Click on it, then scroll down
to version 9.0.16, to Core, then to zip.
Click and download.
And again remember, you will need to have
at least Java 8 installed and it's a good idea
to have that complete before you go any further.
Now, once the latest version of Tomcat is fully downloaded,
on a Mac or Windows, open up a command prompt,
and we're going to copy
the version of Tomcat to our home directory.
And then from there we're going to unzip it.
Both machines typically decompress these file formats,
leaving you a directory entitled apache-tomcat
with the version number.
We'll go ahead and cd into the directory.
Inside the Tomcat directory, we need to do a few things.
So let's go ahead and navigate into the bin directory.
On a Mac we need to pay attention to the startup.sh,
the shutdown.sh, and the catalina.sh.
So what we're going to do,
we'll need to make these executable.
We'll type chmod +x startup.sh,
chmod +x catalina.sh,
chmod +x shutdown.sh.
This will allow us to start up Tomcat
using the command ./startup.sh.
So we'll do that now, ./startup.sh.
And this will spit out a few log statements
saying that CATALINA_BASE and some other things
followed that Tomcat started.
Now we're going to open up a browser window.
Type in localhost:8080 and hit Enter.
You should see a green banner
for Apache Tomcat server that says
if you're seeing this,
you've successfully installed Tomcat.
Congratulations!
Now, the next step is to stop the server
from the command line.
We'll go back to the terminal to type shutdown.
Again you should see some log statements
saying that CATALINA_BASE and other things.
It won't show a Tomcat stopped message,
but trust me, it is.
We can go back to the same browser window
and verify that it's stopped, which after refreshing,
you'll get a message saying it can't be reached.
This indicates that the shutdown script worked.